
## Is this guide for you?

If you're trying to get DeepSpeech working for a new language, you've come to the right place! You can easily download a pre-trained DeepSpeech model for English, but it will not work for another language (even with the same alphabet). This guide will help you create a working DeepSpeech model for a new language. Along the way, you will learn some best-practices for Speech Recognition and for creating useable voice techonlogy.

## Setting Expectations

You might think that Speech Recognition is solved for English, and as such, with a little work you can solve Speech Recognition for a new language. This is false for two reasons. First, Speech Recognition is far from solved for English, and second it is unlikely you will be able to create something that works as well as a pre-trained English DeepSpeech model. However, you can still make create useful voice technology for a non-English language! The success of any voice technology is dependent on a constellation of factors, and the accuracy of your speech recognizer is just one of those factors. To the extent that an existing voice technology works, it works because the creators have eliminated many sources of failure. Think about one of the oldest working voice technologies: spoken digit recognition. When you call a bank, you might hear a recording say, "Say '1' to learn about credit cards, or say '2' to learn about debit cards, or say '0' to speak to a representative". If you answer with anything other than a number less than 10, the system will mishear you. These systems are setup for success because they've re-formulated an open-ended speech transcription problem as a contstrained vocabulary problem. In this case, as long as the system is able to distinguish spoken digits from one-another, it will succeed. We will talk about ways in which you can constrain the search space of a problem or bias a model towards a certain vocabulary. If you want to make a useable digit recognizer, it doesn't matter if your model has a 65% Word Error Rate when transcribing the nightly news. All that matters is your model can correctly identify spoken digits.

If you have used a speech technology and it worked flawlessly, it means that the creators of the product set themselves up for success. This is what you must also do.

